Ingredients:

1/2 cup of cold water
3 envelopes of unflavored gelatin [1]
2/3 cups corn syrup
2 cups of granulated sugar
1/4 cup of water
1/4 teaspoon of salt
1 to 3 tablespoons of vanilla extract or other flavorings (almond, peppermint, etc.)
1/3 cup of corn flour (corn starch)
1/3 cup of confectioner’s sugar (powdered sugar)
Food coloring (optional)

Directions:

1. 	Collect your ingredients and equipment before you begin working. You will need them at hand throughout the process.
2. 	Prepare a mixture of equal parts powdered sugar and corn starch or corn flour. Mix a cup or more of each in a bowl and keep it handy.
3. 	Prepare your pans. Marshmallows are very sticky.
		Line your pans with plastic wrap, waxed paper or baking paper for easier release.
		Thoroughly spray the pan or plastic wrap with cooking spray or pour some oil in and spread it thoroughly. Make sure the entire surface is well oiled.
		Alternatively, you could use a silicone pan as it is non-stick.
		Dust the oiled surface generously with the cornstarch and powdered sugar mixture. Tap the excess back into the bowl and reserve it for later.
4. 	Pour the 3 envelopes of gelatin into the bowl of an electric mixer.
5. 	Put 1/2 cup cold water into the bowl with the gelatin.
6. 	Let the gelatin and water sit for about 10 minutes while you prepare the sugar and corn syrup mixture. The gelatin will “bloom” during this time.
7. 	Combine 2 cups of granulated sugar, 1/4 cup water and 2/3 cups corn syrup in a small saucepan.
8. 	Bring the mixture in the saucepan to a boil.
9. 	Place a candy thermometer in it and watch for the temperature to reach exactly 117°C/244°F (in the soft ball stage).
10. Pour the boiling sugar mixture into the gelatin mixture and start mixing it at high speed. While mixing, add 1/4 teaspoon salt and beat for at least 15 minutes.
11. Add the vanilla extract or another flavoring at the end of the 15 minutes. Add food coloring, if desired, at this stage, too.
12. Spread the mixture evenly in a prepared pan. It will help to oil your hands, spoon or spatula before beginning.
13. Sprinkle more cornstarch over the top and, if you want, cover with another piece of plastic or waxed paper and press the mixture into the pan.
14. Let the marshmallows sit for about four hours at room temperature.
15. Remove the big slab of marshmallow from the pan and place it onto a cutting board well sprinkled with more of the cornstarch mixture. Sprinkle more cornstarch on the side that is now on top.
16. Cut the marshmallow into squares with kitchen scissors or a pizza wheel. You can also use cookie cutters to cut the marshmallows into shapes. Separate the pieces so they do not stick back together.
17. Toss the pieces with powdered sugar to keep them from sticking to each other on the cut sides.
18. Stack the marshmallows into containers with sheets of waxed paper between each layer. They will stick together in a blob if you don't. As long as the containers have fairly straight sides, you can trace the bottom of the container onto the waxed paper and cut several layers at once.